Next, we will cover Project Demand Management.
This section contains my recommendations of the basics you need
for setting up your project demand process.
Think of this as a starter kit or approach for you and your
team or teams and modify it as you see fit.
No one process can be applied to every situation,
but this may be a great place to start.
Let's first start with the current perception of IT
organizations regarding resources and new projects.
70% of IT organizations report a shortage of
resources to manage project demands.
Well, I guess the other 30% have enough.
That's even surprising.
You will likely fall into the category of not enough resources.
The fact that you don't have enough resources means you must have a
process to best manage and utilize your limited resources.
That is your job as a manager or leader.
Now let's recap our demand sources for projects.
Now let's our demand sources for projects.
We have management directive.
This is where a manager, or director, or VP just says, "Well, just go do it.
" We also have a project request system.
It may be a system,
an automated system that collects project requests and
feeds them into the backlog as well, and there's tickets from operations.
Remember, based on the threshold of the ops work,
it may become a project rather than remain in the operation side.
Lastly, projects from initiatives.
We'll talk about that a lot more in the next module,
but a lot of projects can come from initiatives,
and they typically are the most important and critical projects.
Now all these come into the project backlog and I show the tickets below
because I'd like everything to drive into a ticket and here a ticket
represents a project request or a project.
Now, again, there may be other types of systems that track this,
and again,
I've been using the term ticket to generically represent an item in the backlog,
whether it's an operational item or a project item. Now let's look at project backlog and tickets.